# 2019-05 Agenda

## Agenda Item 

### 1.1 Welcome/Apologies

  Welcome from Pembleton, Keith (USQ)

### 1.2 Review Minutes and Actions
  Attached - [2019-03 Minutes](https://confluence.csiro.au/display/APSIM/2019-03+Minutes)
  
## 2. Science/Software

### 2.1 Check for new APSIM Major Improvements
  
   GitHub MAJOR science issues since last RP meeting
   
   4 new links.
   
   Simple model - water and N balance.  Keith to link Hamish with XX who worked on a banana model.  
   Hamish may be able to include the banana modeil into next gen
   
   GitHub ALL science issues since last RP meeting
   
### 2.2  Updates from RP on models and reviews 
  ALL issues tagging APSIM Initiative Reference Panel
  Models under development - https://github.com/APSIMInitiative/ApsimX/labels/major
  - Sorghum model - https://github.com/APSIMInitiative/ApsimX/issues/572
    any others need noting or discussion?
    
  - Models currently under review -https://github.com/APSIMInitiative/ApsimX/labels/underreview
    - [Fodder beet model](https://github.com/APSIMInitiative/ApsimX/issues/78)
    - [White Clover model](https://github.com/APSIMInitiative/ApsimX/issues/2069)
    - [CLEM](https://github.com/APSIMInitiative/ApsimX/issues/3575)
    
    - any new models requiring review?<br>Models/Updates in release since last RP meeting
      - [AgPasture](https://github.com/APSIMInitiative/ApsimX/issues/3689)
      
      
    
### 2.3  Update from AI SC meeting in March

  - Paper "Audit of APSIM papers containing models (and/or improvements) not in an APSIM release"
  - Development plan  (updates and days vs hours issue)
  - Funded Projects - Stock Model - to be reviewed out of session
  - Request for report on AI funded software position at each SC meeting
  - Request for update of GitHub process and RP Meeting structure/changes
  - Request for updates on conversations/workshops/activities â€“ arising out of the RP Strategy session related to encouraging cross fertilisation  (and updates/actions arising from these) - including phosphorous developments
  - HB and GH working on "next gen documentation"

### 2.4  Update on Actions from the RP Strategy Session - Feb 2019

 - Work through actions 
  
### 2.5  Update on Actions from AI-PFR Workshop - Nov 2018

 - Work through actions

### 2.6 Software

  Move APSIM Classic into continuous release<br>Comment from Pete deV - For the forseeable future, the Apsim Classic release will remain at 7.10, and links to upgrade to the latest bugfix are available to developers only via the bootleg system on bob. This means registered users don't have a) knowlege of available bugfixes, and b) access to them. I'm proposing some sort of notification system to registered users: some of these bugfixes have serious impact. 
  
  This may entail a list of registered users being kept on bob so that when (if?) a bugfix release is built, users are notified.
  
  The RP may wish to discuss how this continually changing version should be "referenced".

## 3.  Training	
  
  Agreement on APSIM Week Dates
  
## 4. Website/Communications	
  
  Updates; new articles<br>Discussion on RG Trial
  
## 5. Other Business

  Update from Brown, Hamish (Plant and Food) on the "Crop Model word description for APSIM"
  
  [acknowledgement guidelines](https://github.com/APSIMInitiative/ApsimX/issues/3813#issuecomment-488866569)
  
  Paper with acknowledgment - Accounting for soil moisture improves prediction of flowering time in chickpea and wheat https://rdcu.be/bCTPE 

## Next meeting

  Discussion of Date - Pembleton, Keith (USQ) unavailable for next 3 meetings
